Statistical Values can be implemented using a Statistical Values Object.  The Statistical Values Object refers to an Object Element that contains the data to be summarized and Dimensions used to determine how the data is to be summarized. In the example of summarized financial postings, the Statistical Values Object would refer to the Object Element containing the financial posting amount and to several dimensions used to accumulate the postings into appropriate buckets. The first Dimension could be for general ledger account, the second could be for month and a third Dimension for year. Each of the Dimensions would refer to another object called Type Definition Path. The Type Definition Path indicates which Type Definitions in the hierarchy of Type Definitions would be used to arrive at the object used for summarization. A financial posting could use general ledger account directly as a Type Value. In this case, the Type Definition Path would contain only one Type Definition, general ledger account for a financial posting. The Dimension for Month would use a Type Definition Path that refers to several Type Definitions. The financial posting could use posting date (timezone specific) as a type value. The date could use a timezone independent day as a Type Value. The day could use a month and year object as a Type Value. Month and year could use month as a type value. In this case the Type Value Path would include four type definitions, posting date for a financial posting, day for a date, month and year for a day and month for a month a year. The third dimension would refer to a Type Definition Path that includes date for a financial posting, day for a date, month and year for a day and year for a month and year. For each financial posting in the specified set of financial postings, the ZT Server the find the value for account, month and year by traversing the type values for the posting through the Type Value hierarchy. Any postings that share the same general acco